ProtonPack Firmware Update Guide
For Arduino Nano (ATmega328P)

This guide will help you upload the latest firmware to your ProtonPack kit without needing to write code or install the full Arduino software.

1. Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following:

The Firmware File: Look for the file ending in .hex in this folder (e.g., ProtonPack_v1.hex).

USB Cable: A Mini-USB cable to connect the Nano to your computer.

Drivers (Important for Clones): Most Arduino Nano clones use the CH340 chip. If you plug in your board and your computer does not make a sound or see it, you likely need to install the CH340 driver.

Windows/Mac Drivers can be found here: [Search for "CH340 Drivers" online]

2. Instructions for Windows Users (Easiest)

We recommend using a free, lightweight tool called XLoader.

Step 1: Download XLoader Download "XLoader" from a trusted source (usually available on GitHub or various maker websites) and unzip the folder.

Step 2: Connect your Board Plug your Arduino Nano into your USB port.

Step 3: Configure XLoader Open XLoader.exe and use the following settings:

Hex File: Click the ... button and select the .hex firmware file from this folder.

Device: Select Nano(ATmega328).

COM Port: Select the COM port your board is connected to (e.g., COM3, COM4). If multiple appear, try the highest number.

Baud Rate: 57600

Note: This specific speed (57600) is required for "Old Bootloader" Nano clones. If you use the standard 115200, the upload will fail.

Step 4: Upload Click the Upload button. You should see the lights on your Nano flash rapidly.

Success: The status line will say "X bytes uploaded."

Failure: If it gets stuck on "Uploading...", check your COM port or try changing the Baud Rate to 115200 (some newer clones use the new speed).

3. Instructions for Mac Users

Mac users can use the "Terminal" app (pre-installed on every Mac) and a tool called avrdude.

Step 1: Install Avrdude Open Terminal (Command + Space, type "Terminal") and install avrdude using Homebrew: brew install avrdude (If you do not have Homebrew, visit brew.sh to install it first).

Step 2: Find your Port Type the following command to find your Nano's ID: ls /dev/tty.* Look for something like /dev/tty.usbserial-XXXX or /dev/tty.wchusbserialXXXX.

Step 3: Upload Command Run the following command (replace YOUR_FILE.hex with the actual filename and YOUR_PORT with the port you found above):

Bash
avrdude -v -p atmega328p -c arduino -P YOUR_PORT -b 57600 -D -U flash:w:YOUR_FILE.hex:i
Note: If this fails, try changing -b 57600 to -b 115200.

Troubleshooting

"Upload Failed" or Stuck: Unplug the USB, plug it back in, and try the other Baud Rate (115200).

Computer won't see the board: You are likely missing the CH340 Driver. Install it and restart your computer.
